SETUP.md, before:

# 🚀 Quick Setup Guide

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.8+ installed
- Git installed
- Modern web browser

## Installation

### 1. Clone Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/sigdet.git
cd sigdet
```

### 2. Install Dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 3. Download AI Models
```bash
python setup_models.py
```

### 4. Start the System
```bash
# Start API server
python api_server.py

# Open web interface
open web_frontend.html
```

## Usage Options

### 🌐 Web Interface (Recommended)
- Modern, responsive design
- Works on desktop and mobile
- Full feature access
- PWA installable

### 📱 Mobile App
```bash
cd mobile-app
npm install
npx expo start
```

### 💻 Command Line
```bash
# Analyze single image
python main.py --image photo.jpg

# Batch process folder
python main.py --batch /path/to/photos/

# Scan Apple Photos
python main.py --apple-photos
```

## Features
- ✅ AI cigarette detection
- ✅ Parental control monitoring
- ✅ Real-time video surveillance
- ✅ Cross-platform compatibility
- ✅ App protection system

## Support
- Web interface: `http://localhost:8000/web_frontend.html`
- API docs: `http://localhost:8000/docs`
- Mobile access: `http://YOUR_IP:8000/web_frontend.html`

Commit message:

Update branding to Vaping and Smoking Detection System
Renamed the system and updated references from 'Cigarette Detection' to 'Vaping and Smoking Detection' across README, SETUP, desktop client, API server, and web frontend. Clarified detection scope to include both vaping devices and cigarettes, and improved feature descriptions for consistency.

SETUP.md, after:

# 🚀 Quick Setup Guide — Vaping & Smoking Detection System

AI-powered detection of smoking in images and videos, including vaping devices and cigarettes.

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.8+ installed
- Git installed
- Modern web browser

## Installation

### 1. Clone Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/escvape.git
cd escvape
```

### 2. Install Dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 3. Download AI Models
```bash
python setup_models.py
```

### 4. Start the System
```bash
# Start API server
python api_server.py

# Open the web interface in your browser
# Visit: http://localhost:8000/
```

## Usage Options

### 🌐 Web Interface (Recommended)
- Modern, responsive design
- Works on desktop and mobile
- Full feature access: detect smoking (vaping devices and cigarettes) in images and videos
- PWA installable

### 📱 Mobile App
```bash
cd mobile-app
npm install
npx expo start
```

### 💻 Command Line
```bash
# Analyze single image
python main.py --image photo.jpg

# Batch process folder
python main.py --batch /path/to/photos/

# Scan Apple Photos
python main.py --apple-photos
```

## Features
- ✅ AI-powered detection of smoking in images and videos, including vaping devices and cigarettes
- ✅ Parental control monitoring
- ✅ Real-time video surveillance
- ✅ Cross-platform compatibility
- ✅ App protection system

## Support
- Web interface: `http://localhost:8000/`
- API docs: `http://localhost:8000/docs`
- Mobile access: `http://YOUR_IP:8000/web_frontend.html`
